---
title: 'Testosterone Booster'
date: July 26, 2022
isPublished: false
---

Recently my social feeds have been filled with posts relating to testosterone (how to boost, signs for low levels). Does the AI know more about my health than I do? Scarily enough, I think so. I started doing my own research into signs/symptoms of low testosterone, as general as they are I could relate to a lot of them. Some of them are:

    1. Long recovery time
    2. Decreases sense of well-being/depressed
    3. Fatigue
    4. Difficulties with concentration
    5. Moodiness

As a 35 year old man, it's important to get regular blood work drawn, as much as I detest needles. Lo and behold, I have the testosterone level of a 60+ year old. After much research I found out this is way more common than it should be with young men. Not so long ago, the baseline level for a 25 year old male was around 1,000 nanograms per deciliter (ng/dL), now that average is around half that at 500. There is a lot of speculation as to why this this phenomonem is happening:

    1. Prevelence of Microplastics
    2. Highly Processed diet/Western diet
    3. Pollution
    4. So many more external factors

A common and easy solution to remedy low T, is [TRT](https://www.webmd.com/men/replacement-therapy) (Tesosterone Replacement Therapy) or steroids. I absolutely hate needles so this was an ultimate last choice for me. I started exploring more natural alternatives. I am very aware the power of herbs are pretty minimal, but I decided to give it a shot and down the rabbithole I went.

First things that come up are pre-made testosterone boosters, with the gimmicky labels and statements that your life will be cured. So after much bro-science research through reddit and other forums, I came up with a list of some testosterone boosting/estrogen inhibiting supplements that have had positive experience for people:

    1. Tonkgat Ali
    2. Maca
    3. Boron
    4. Grape Seed Extract
    5. Fadogia Agrestis
    6. Saw Palmetto
    7. Tribulus Terrestris

I did what any normal person does and bought all these supplements at the same time and decide to turn myself into a human guniea pig. I am not a doctor and this isn't medical advice, I recommend anyone talk to their doctor before self perscribing any drugs.

I have been experimenting with nootropics and supplements for so many years now to improve impovement cognitively and physically. So I know it's always best to have a baseline, which will be my recent T test. Below is a not a comprehensive list and based on my experiences what I had read. This list will 100% change in the future as I am sure most of these provide no utility.

### **IMPORTANT**

_If you you think you are suffering from low testosterone I highly recommend you get the most important things in order with your health and see if that fixes your issues. Proper nutrition, adequte sleep, exercise and stress management_

## 1. Tonkgat Ali

## 2. Maca

## 3. Boron

## 4. Grape Seed Extract

## 5. Fadogia Agrestis

## 6. Saw Palmetto

## 7. Tribulus Terrestris
